CASMINST-5111 CSM 1.2: Initial security hardening guide, inclusion of NCN images bucket lockdown (#2119)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/security_and_authentication/Restrict_Access_to_NCN_Images_S3_Bucket.md

# Procedure to Restrict Network Access to the ncn-images S3 Bucket

> The configuration documented in this procedure is intended to prevent user-facing dedicated nodes (UANs, Compute Nodes) for retrieving NCN image content from Ceph S3 Services, as running on storage nodes. Specifically, the controls enacted via this procedure should:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration documented in this procedure is intended to prevent user-facing dedicated nodes (UANs, Compute Nodes) from retrieving NCN image content from Ceph S3 services, as running on storage nodes. Specifically, the controls enacted via this procedure should:
```

> 1. Block HAProxy access to the ncn-images bucket if the client is not an NCN (NMN) or PXE booting from the MTL network. This via a HAProxy ACL on the storage servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Block HAProxy access to the `ncn-images` bucket if the client is not an NCN (NMN) or PXE booting from the MTL network. This via a HAProxy ACL on the storage servers.
```

2. Enable access logging for HAProxy.
3. Block Rados GW network access (port 8080) to if the client is not an NCN (NMN) or originating from the HMN network. This via iptables rules on the storage servers.

## Limitations

This is not designed to prevent UAIs (if in use) from retrieving NCN image content. 

If a storage node is rebuilt, this procedure (for the rebuilt node) will need to be applied after the rebuild. The same is true if NCNs are added or removed from the system. 

> ## Prerequisites and Scope

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites and scope
```

Procedure should be executed after install or upgrade is otherwise complete, but prior to opening the system for user access. 

> Unless otherwise noted, the procedure should be run from ncn-m001 (not PIT).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless otherwise noted, the procedure should be run from `ncn-m001` (not PIT).  
```

The procedure was tested on a CSM 1.2.0 GA System. 

> 

Reviewer: Is everything below this intended to be run sequentially? If so, it might be better to make this an ordered list / set up steps instead of headers.

## Test Connectivity Before Applying the ACL

> Save the following script to a file (e.g., con_test.sh). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the following script to a file (for example, `con_test.sh`). 
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

      else
         curl -I --connect-timeout 2 http://${n}:${RADOS_HTTP_PORT}/ 2>/dev/null | grep -q "200 OK"
         rc=$?
         rc_pass=0
      fi

      if [ $rc -eq $rc_pass ]
      then
         echo $PASS
      else
         echo $FAIL
      fi
   done
}

function haproxy_test
{
   NODES="$1"
   MSG="$2"

   echo "[i] $MSG"
   for n in $NODES
   do
      echo -n "  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTP $n: "
      curl -I --connect-timeout 2 http://${n}:${HAPROXY_HTTP_PORT}/ncn-images/ 2>/dev/null | grep -q "x-amz-request-id"
      if [ $? -eq 0 ]
      then
         echo $PASS
      else
         echo $FAIL
      fi

      echo -n "  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTPS $n: "
      curl -kI --connect-timeout 2 https://${n}:${HAPROXY_HTTPS_PORT}/ncn-images/ 2>/dev/null | grep -q "x-amz-request-id"
      if [ $? -eq 0 ]
      then
         echo $PASS
      else
         echo $FAIL
      fi

   done
}

rados_test "$SCSNS_NMN" "MGMT RADOS over NMN"
rados_test "$SCSNS_HMN" "MGMT RADOS over HMN"
rados_test "$SCSNS_CMN" "MGMT RADOS over CMN" "CONN_FAIL"
haproxy_test "$SCSNS_NMN" "MGMT HAProxy over NMN"
```

Execute the script, if the ACLs have not been applied, you should see results similar to those below. 

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# bash ./con_test.sh 
[i] MGMT RADOS over NMN
  RADOS ncn-s001.nmn: PASS
  RADOS ncn-s002.nmn: PASS
  RADOS ncn-s003.nmn: PASS
[i] MGMT RADOS over HMN
  RADOS ncn-s001.hmn: PASS
  RADOS ncn-s002.hmn: PASS
  RADOS ncn-s003.hmn: PASS
[i] MGMT RADOS over CMN
  RADOS ncn-s001.cmn: FAIL
  RADOS ncn-s002.cmn: FAIL
  RADOS ncn-s003.cmn: FAIL
[i] MGMT HAProxy over NMN
  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTP ncn-s001.nmn: PASS
  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTPS ncn-s001.nmn: PASS
  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTP ncn-s002.nmn: PASS
  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTPS ncn-s002.nmn: PASS
  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTP ncn-s003.nmn: PASS
  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTPS ncn-s003.nmn: PASS
```

## Configure HAProxy ACLs and Logging

> Necessary to limit RGW VIP access, to the ncn-images bucket, to management NCNs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Necessary to limit RGW VIP access to the `ncn-images` bucket and to the management NCNs. 
```

Author: Access to the bucket is limited to management NCNs

### Build IP address list of NCNs, on NMN

> Cross-check to verify the count seems appropriate for your system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cross-check to verify the count seems appropriate for the system in use.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# grep 'ncn-[mws].*.nmn' /etc/hosts | awk '{print $1;}' | sed -e 's/\./ /g' | sort -nk 4 | sed -e 's/ /\./g' | tee allowed_ncns.lst
10.252.1.4
10.252.1.5
10.252.1.6
10.252.1.7
10.252.1.8
10.252.1.9
10.252.1.10
10.252.1.11
10.252.1.12
10.252.1.13
10.252.1.14
```

### Add the MTL subnet (needed for network boots of NCNs)

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# echo '10.1.0.0/16' >> allowed_ncns.lst
```

> ### Verify the allowed_ncns.lst contents, should contain NMN addresses for all management NCNs nodes, and the MTL subnet (10.1.0.0/16)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Verify the `allowed_ncns.lst` contains NMN addresses for all management NCNs nodes and the MTL subnet (10.1.0.0/16)
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# cat allowed_ncns.lst 
10.252.1.4
10.252.1.5
10.252.1.6
10.252.1.7
10.252.1.8
10.252.1.9
10.252.1.10
10.252.1.11
10.252.1.12
10.252.1.13
10.252.1.14
10.1.0.0/16
```

### Confirm haproxy configurations are identical across storage nodes

> Make sure you adjust the ```-w``` predicate to represent the full set of storage nodes your system. Applies to this and subsequent steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you adjust the `-w` predicate to represent the full set of storage nodes for the system. Applies to this and subsequent steps.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

    ssl-default-bind-options no-sslv3 no-tlsv10 no-tlsv11 no-tls-tickets
defaults
    mode                    http
    log                     global
    option                  httplog
    option                  dontlognull
    option http-server-close
    option forwardfor       except 127.0.0.0/8
    option                  redispatch
    retries                 3
    timeout http-request    10s
    timeout queue           1m
    timeout connect         10s
    timeout client          1m
    timeout server          1m
    timeout http-keep-alive 10s
    timeout check           10s
    maxconn                 8000

frontend http-rgw-frontend
    bind *:80
    default_backend rgw-backend

frontend https-rgw-frontend
    bind *:443 ssl crt /etc/ceph/rgw.pem
    default_backend rgw-backend

backend rgw-backend
    option forwardfor
    balance static-rr
    option httpchk GET /
        server server-ncn-s001-rgw0 10.252.1.7:8080 check weight 100
        server server-ncn-s002-rgw0 10.252.1.6:8080 check weight 100
        server server-ncn-s003-rgw0 10.252.1.5:8080 check weight 100
        server server-ncn-s004-rgw0 10.252.1.4:8080 check weight 100
```

> ### Create a backup of haproxy.cfg files on storage nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a backup of `haproxy.cfg` files on storage nodes
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# pdsh -w ncn-s00[1-4] "cp /etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg /etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg-dist"
```

### Grab a copy to modify from a storage node, preserving permissions

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# scp -p ncn-s001:/etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg . 
haproxy.cfg            
```

> ### Edit the haproxy.cfg, adding in the following ACLs and log directives to each frontend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Edit the `haproxy.cfg`, adding in the following ACLs and log directives to each frontend
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# diff -Naur haproxy.cfg-dist haproxy.cfg
--- haproxy.cfg-dist	2022-06-30 18:20:55.000000000 +0000
+++ haproxy.cfg	2022-07-07 16:56:40.000000000 +0000
@@ -1,6 +1,6 @@
 # Please do not change this file directly since it is managed by Ansible and will be overwritten
 global
-    log         127.0.0.1 local2
+    log         127.0.0.1:514 local0 info
 
     chroot      /var/lib/haproxy
     pidfile     /var/run/haproxy.pid
@@ -31,12 +31,22 @@
     maxconn                 8000
 
 frontend http-rgw-frontend
+    log global
+    option httplog
     bind *:80
     default_backend rgw-backend
+    acl allow_ncns src -n -f /etc/haproxy/allowed_ncns.lst
+    acl restrict_ncn_images path_beg /ncn-images
+    http-request deny if restrict_ncn_images !allow_ncns 
 
 frontend https-rgw-frontend
+    log global
+    option httplog
     bind *:443 ssl crt /etc/ceph/rgw.pem
     default_backend rgw-backend
+    acl allow_ncns src -n -f /etc/haproxy/allowed_ncns.lst
+    acl restrict_ncn_images path_beg /ncn-images
+    http-request deny if restrict_ncn_images !allow_ncns 
 
 backend rgw-backend
     option forwardfor
```
   

> ### Create a new rsyslog configuration for haproxy, to have it listen to UDP 514 on localhost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a new rsyslog configuration for HAproxy to have it listen to UDP 514 on localhost
```

With the log directive additions to HAProxy, and allowing a localhost UDP 514 socket, access logging should work properly. Set permissions to 640 on the file.

> ```

Reviewer: bash

ncn-m001# cat haproxy.conf 
ncn-m001# Collect log with UDP
$ModLoad imudp
$UDPServerAddress 127.0.0.1
$UDPServerRun 514

# chmod 0640 haproxy.conf 
```

> ### Make sure haproxy is running/happy on storage nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Make sure HAproxy is running/happy on storage nodes
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# pdsh -w ncn-s00[1-4] "systemctl status haproxy" | grep "Active"
ncn-s001:      Active: active (running) since Thu 2022-07-07 17:38:49 UTC; 54min ago
ncn-s003:      Active: active (running) since Thu 2022-07-07 17:38:49 UTC; 54min ago
ncn-s002:      Active: active (running) since Thu 2022-07-07 17:38:49 UTC; 54min ago
ncn-s004:      Active: active (running) since Thu 2022-07-07 17:38:49 UTC; 54min ago
```

### Determine where the HAProxy VIP currently resides (for awareness in the event debug is necessary)

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# host rgw-vip
rgw-vip.nmn has address 10.252.1.3

ncn-m001# host rgw-vip.nmn
rgw-vip.nmn has address 10.252.1.3

ncn-m001# host 10.252.1.3
3.1.252.10.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer rgw-vip.
3.1.252.10.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer rgw-vip.local.
3.1.252.10.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer rgw-vip.local.local.
3.1.252.10.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer rgw-vip.nmn.
3.1.252.10.in-addr.arpa domain name pointer rgw-vip.nmn.local.

# ssh rgw-vip 'hostname'
ncn-s001
```

### Propagate the rsyslog configuration out to all storage nodes

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# pdcp -w ncn-s00[1-4] haproxy.conf /etc/rsyslog.d/
```

### Propagate the HAProxy configuration out to all storage nodes

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# pdcp -w ncn-s00[1-4] haproxy.cfg allowed_ncns.lst /etc/haproxy/
```

### Verify the configurations are identical across storage nodes

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

    timeout http-request    10s
    timeout queue           1m
    timeout connect         10s
    timeout client          1m
    timeout server          1m
    timeout http-keep-alive 10s
    timeout check           10s
    maxconn                 8000

frontend http-rgw-frontend
    bind *:80
    default_backend rgw-backend
    acl allow_ncns src -n -f /etc/haproxy/allowed_ncns.lst
    acl restrict_ncn_images path_beg /ncn-images
    http-request deny if restrict_ncn_images !allow_ncns 

frontend https-rgw-frontend
    bind *:443 ssl crt /etc/ceph/rgw.pem
    default_backend rgw-backend
    acl allow_ncns src -n -f /etc/haproxy/allowed_ncns.lst
    acl restrict_ncn_images path_beg /ncn-images
    http-request deny if restrict_ncn_images !allow_ncns 

backend rgw-backend
    option forwardfor
    balance static-rr
    option httpchk GET /
        server server-ncn-s001-rgw0 10.252.1.7:8080 check weight 100
        server server-ncn-s002-rgw0 10.252.1.6:8080 check weight 100
        server server-ncn-s003-rgw0 10.252.1.5:8080 check weight 100
        server server-ncn-s004-rgw0 10.252.1.4:8080 check weight 100
```

### Restart rsyslog across all storage nodes

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# pdsh -w ncn-s00[1-4] "systemctl restart rsyslog"
ncn-m001# pdsh -w ncn-s00[1-4] "systemctl status rsyslog" | grep Active
ncn-s001:      Active: active (running) since Thu 2022-07-07 13:50:39 UTC; 7s ago
ncn-s002:      Active: active (running) since Thu 2022-07-07 13:50:39 UTC; 7s ago
ncn-s003:      Active: active (running) since Thu 2022-07-07 13:50:39 UTC; 7s ago
ncn-s004:      Active: active (running) since Thu 2022-07-07 13:50:39 UTC; 7s ago
```

### Restart HAProxy across all storage nodes

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# pdsh -w ncn-s00[1-4] "systemctl restart haproxy"
ncn-m001# pdsh -w ncn-s00[1-4] "systemctl status haproxy" | grep Active
ncn-s001:      Active: active (running) since Thu 2022-07-07 13:50:39 UTC; 7s ago
ncn-s002:      Active: active (running) since Thu 2022-07-07 13:50:39 UTC; 7s ago
ncn-s003:      Active: active (running) since Thu 2022-07-07 13:50:39 UTC; 7s ago
ncn-s004:      Active: active (running) since Thu 2022-07-07 13:50:39 UTC; 7s ago
```

## Apply server-side iptables rules to storage nodes, need to execute for each storage node

This is needed to prevent direct access to the Ceph Rados GW Service (not through HAProxy). 

The process is written to support change on individual nodes, but could be scripted after analysis of the running firewall rule set (notably with respect to local modifications, if they exist). 

### Document where RadosGW is running (port wise)

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

> ncn-s001:~ # ss -tnpl | grep rados

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ncn-s001# ss -tnpl | grep rados
```

LISTEN    0         128                0.0.0.0:8080             0.0.0.0:*        users:(("radosgw",pid=25018,fd=77))                                            
LISTEN    0         128                   [::]:8080                [::]:*        users:(("radosgw",pid=25018,fd=78))  
```

### List existing iptables 

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

> ncn-s001:~ # iptables -L -nx -v

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ncn-s001# iptables -L -nx -v
```

Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT 399480930 packets, 1051007801113 bytes)
    pkts      bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         
       0        0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            10.102.4.135         tcp dpt:22

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT 0 packets, 0 bytes)
    pkts      bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT 400599807 packets, 1035420933926 bytes)
    pkts      bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination    

```

> ### Run the following to add iptables rules for control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Run the following to add `iptables` rules for control
```

The range should include all NMN NCN IP addresses generated for the HAProxy ACL step.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

iptables -A INPUT -i bond0.hmn0 -p tcp --dport 8080 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -i lo -p tcp --dport 8080 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 8080 -m iprange --src-range 10.252.1.4-10.252.1.14 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 8080 -j LOG --log-prefix "RADOSGW-DROP"
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 8080 -j DROP
```

> ### List iptables again, verify rules are in place

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### List `iptables` again, verify rules are in place
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

> ncn-s001:~ # iptables -L -nx -v

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ncn-s001# iptables -L -nx -v
```

Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT 22144 packets, 28721015 bytes)
    pkts      bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         
       0        0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            10.102.4.135         tcp dpt:22
       0        0 ACCEPT     tcp  --  bond0.hmn0 *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            tcp dpt:8080
      85     4862 ACCEPT     tcp  --  lo     *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            tcp dpt:8080
     276    15438 ACCEPT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            tcp dpt:8080 source IP range 10.252.1.4-10.252.1.14
       0        0 LOG        tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            tcp dpt:8080 LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix "RADOSGW-DROP"
       0        0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            tcp dpt:8080

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT 0 packets, 0 bytes)
    pkts      bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT 22099 packets, 30141111 bytes)
    pkts      bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination   
```

> ## Test Connectivity After Applying the ACL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Test connectivity after applying the ACL
```

Re-run the connectivity test. While the results will be similar, they should all now be passing:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# bash ./con_test.sh 
[i] MGMT RADOS over NMN
  RADOS ncn-s001.nmn: PASS
  RADOS ncn-s002.nmn: PASS
  RADOS ncn-s003.nmn: PASS
[i] MGMT RADOS over HMN
  RADOS ncn-s001.hmn: PASS
  RADOS ncn-s002.hmn: PASS
  RADOS ncn-s003.hmn: PASS
[i] MGMT RADOS over CMN
  RADOS ncn-s001.cmn: PASS
  RADOS ncn-s002.cmn: PASS
  RADOS ncn-s003.cmn: PASS
[i] MGMT HAProxy over NMN
  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTP ncn-s001.nmn: PASS
  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTPS ncn-s001.nmn: PASS
  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTP ncn-s002.nmn: PASS
  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTPS ncn-s002.nmn: PASS
  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTP ncn-s003.nmn: PASS
  HAPROXY (CEPH) HTTPS ncn-s003.nmn: PASS
```

> ## Validate that you cannot connect to HAProxy for ncn-images or Ceph RADOS GW (at all) from compute and UAN nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Validate that you cannot connect to HAProxy for `ncn-images` or Ceph RADOS GW (at all) from compute and UAN nodes
```

> Use rgw-vip as it will resolve to one of the storage nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `rgw-vip` as it will resolve to one of the storage nodes.
```

```

> nid000002:~ # host rgw-vip

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nid000002# host rgw-vip
```

rgw-vip has address 10.252.1.3

> nid000002:~ # curl http://rgw-vip/ncn-images/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nid000002# curl http://rgw-vip/ncn-images/
```

<html><body><h1>403 Forbidden</h1>
Request forbidden by administrative rules.
</body></html>

# curl --connect-timeout 2 rgw-vip:8080
curl: (28) Connection timed out after 2001 milliseconds
```

In HAProxy logs, you should see a 403 response, from HAProxy:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

# pdsh -N -w ncn-s00[1-4] "cd /var/log && zgrep -h -i -E 'haproxy.*frontend' messages || exit 0" | grep "ncn-images" | grep "10.252.1.13"
2022-07-13T13:57:08+00:00 xxx-ncn-s001.local haproxy[43591]: 10.252.1.13:50238 [13/Jul/2022:13:57:08.363] http-rgw-frontend http-rgw-frontend/<NOSRV> 0/-1/-1/-1/0 403 212 - - PR-- 1/1/0/0/0 0/0 "GET /ncn-images/ HTTP/1.1"
2022-07-13T14:01:11+00:00 xxx-ncn-s001.local haproxy[43591]: 10.252.1.13:50240 [13/Jul/2022:14:01:11.038] http-rgw-frontend http-rgw-frontend/<NOSRV> 0/-1/-1/-1/0 403 212 - - PR-- 1/1/0/0/0 0/0 "GET /ncn-images/ HTTP/1.1"
```

> In the firewall logs, you should see Ceph RADOS GW traffic being dropped on the storage node, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the firewall logs, the Ceph RADOS GW traffic will be dropped on the storage node. For example:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

# pdsh -N -w ncn-s00[1-4] "grep RADOSGW /var/log/firewall" | grep "10.252.1.13" | head -1
2022-07-13T14:02:03.418750+00:00 xxx-ncn-s001 kernel: [4397628.546654] RADOSGW-DROPIN=bond0.nmn0 OUT= MAC=b8:59:9f:f9:1d:22:a4:bf:01:3f:6f:91:08:00 SRC=10.252.1.13 DST=10.252.1.3 LEN=52 TOS=0x00 PREC=0x00 TTL=64 ID=9727 DF PROTO=TCP SPT=59278 DPT=8080 WINDOW=42340 RES=0x00 SYN URGP=0 
```

For further validation, the following script can be saved to a UAN or compute node with a storage node count as an input.

This will test cross-network select access that should not be possible based on a correctly configured switch ACL posture, as well. 

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

> nid000002:~ # cat user_con_test.sh 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nid000002# cat user_con_test.sh 
```

[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f ncn-s003.cmn:8080 -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f http://ncn-s003.cmn/ncn-images/ -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f -k https://ncn-s003.cmn/ncn-images/ -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f ncn-s003.hmn:8080 -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f http://ncn-s003.hmn/ncn-images/ -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f -k https://ncn-s003.hmn/ncn-images/ -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f ncn-s004.nmn:8080 -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f http://ncn-s004.nmn/ncn-images/ -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f -k https://ncn-s004.nmn/ncn-images/ -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f ncn-s004.cmn:8080 -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f http://ncn-s004.cmn/ncn-images/ -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f -k https://ncn-s004.cmn/ncn-images/ -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f ncn-s004.hmn:8080 -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f http://ncn-s004.hmn/ncn-images/ -> PASS
[i] curl --connect-timeout 2 -f -k https://ncn-s004.hmn/ncn-images/ -> PASS
```

## Save the iptables ruleset

Iptables is currently reloaded via a oneshot systemd service. 

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-s001:/usr/lib/systemd # cat ./system/metal-iptables.service 
[Unit]
Description=Loads Metal iptables config
After=local-fs.target network.service

[Service]
Type=oneshot
ExecStart=iptables-restore /etc/iptables/metal.conf
Restart=no
RemainAfterExit=no

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Make a backup of the firewall rules. 

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# pdsh -w ncn-s00[1-4] "cp -a /etc/iptables/metal.conf /etc/iptables/metal.conf-dist"
```

> Use iptables-save to commit running rules to the persistent configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `iptables-save` to commit running rules to the persistent configuration. 
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# pdsh -w ncn-s00[1-4] "iptables-save -f /etc/iptables/metal.conf"
```

Verify the ruleset is consistent across nodes. 

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# pdsh -w ncn-s00[1-4] "cat /etc/iptables/metal.conf" | grep "8080" | dshbak -c
----------------
ncn-s[001-004]
----------------
-A INPUT -i bond0.hmn0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 8080 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i lo -p tcp -m tcp --dport 8080 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 8080 -m iprange --src-range 10.252.1.4-10.252.1.14 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 8080 -j LOG --log-prefix RADOSGW-DROP
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 8080 -j DROP
```

## Troubleshooting

> Note: If SMA log forwarders are not yet running, you may need to temporarily disable the ```/etc/rsyslog.d/01-cray-rsyslog.conf``` rule (for logs to flow to the local nodes without delay). Be sure to restart rsyslog if you do. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: If SMA log forwarders are not yet running, you may need to temporarily disable the `/etc/rsyslog.d/01-cray-rsyslog.conf` rule (for logs to flow to the local nodes without delay). Be sure to restart rsyslog if you do. 
```

> Look for RADOSGW drops in ```/var/log/firewall``` on storage nodes, not that the connectivity test will attempt access on the CMN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Look for RADOSGW drops in `/var/log/firewall` on storage nodes, not that the connectivity test will attempt access on the CMN.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

ncn-m001# pdsh -N -w ncn-s00[1-3] "grep RADOSGW /var/log/firewall"
2022-07-11T19:26:22.655077+00:00 xxx-ncn-s003 kernel: [265870.330981] RADOSGW-DROPIN=bond0.cmn0 OUT= MAC=b8:59:9f:f9:1b:fa:b8:59:9f:f9:1b:fe:08:00 SRC=10.101.8.35 DST=10.101.8.43 LEN=60 TOS=0x00 PREC=0x00 TTL=64 ID=1170 DF PROTO=TCP SPT=52462 DPT=8080 WINDOW=35840 RES=0x00 SYN URGP=0 
2022-07-11T19:26:23.690023+00:00 xxx-ncn-s003 kernel: [265871.365959] RADOSGW-DROPIN=bond0.cmn0 OUT= MAC=b8:59:9f:f9:1b:fa:b8:59:9f:f9:1b:fe:08:00 SRC=10.101.8.35 DST=10.101.8.43 LEN=60 TOS=0x00 PREC=0x00 TTL=64 ID=1171 DF PROTO=TCP SPT=52462 DPT=8080 WINDOW=35840 RES=0x00 SYN URGP=0 
...
```

> Look for HAProxy access logs in ```/var/log/messages``` on storage nodes, that have HTTP 403 responses (or other responses depending upon context). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Look for HAProxy access logs in `/var/log/messages` on storage nodes that have HTTP 403 responses (or other responses depending upon context). 
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```
